Data Description  
 
There are four data files.  Here is a brief description of t he files.  
 
File  Description  
Data Science J obs 
 Around 1600 rows of sample data desc ribing the number of 
jobs posted by the leading companies including details like 
salary, experience and so on  in the years 2024 -25 
Analytics Jobs  
 Around 15800 rows o f sample data describing  job posting s in 
analytics  area including deta ils like job description , 
designation  , location salary and so on  in the years 2024 -25 
JDS Skill Traits  
(Junior Data Scientists ) 
 Around 1 40 rows of sample data of a company ’s skillset data 
of its junior or entry level data scientis ts. The data presents 
measured technical skillsets and outcome like promotion  or 
salary hike  (high/low). 
SDS Personality Trai ts 
(Senior Dat a Scientists ) 
 
 Around 1 60 rows of sample data of a company trait analysis 
data of its senior and customer facing l evel data scientis ts. 
The data presents measured personality traits  and outcome 
like overall success  (high/low). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data Dictionaries  
File: Data Science J obs 
Column  Brief Description  
reference_no  Row identification number o r ID 
company_name  Name of the recruiting company  
job_title  Title of the job  
min_experience  Minimu m required experience  
avg_salary  Average sal ary offered across the job postings for the company  
min_salary  Minimum  salary offered across the job postings for the company  
max_salary  Maximum  salary offered across the job postings for the company  
num_of_jobs  Number of posting by the company  
 
File: Analytics  Jobs 
Column  Brief Description  
s_no  Row identification number o r ID 
experience  Years of experience required for the job  
job_description  Typical description  of the  job 
job_desig  Designation or position of the job r ole 
job_type  Type or classification  of the job  
key_skills  Key skills required for the job  
location  Geo location of the job requirement  
salary  Salary offered  
 
File: JDS Skill Traits  
Column  Brief Description  
id Row identification number o r ID 
big_data_skills  Average score on data skills , summarized on a scale of 1 -5 based on 
multiple tests , train ing cum evaluations and feedback.  
maths -stats_skills  Average score on quant itative, maths and statistics  skills , summarized 
on a scale of 1 -5 based on m ultiple tests , train ing cum evaluations and 
feedback.  
coding_skills  Average score on coding skills  on SAS, Python , SQL an d so on , 
summarized on a scale of 1 -5 based on m ultiple tests , train ing cum 
evaluations and feedback.  
ai_and_ml_skills  Average score on newer concepts of artificial  intelligence and machine 
learning , summarized on a scale of 1 -5 based on m ultiple tests , train ing 
cum evaluations and feedback.  
dashboard_and_storytelling_skills  Average score on  visualization , reporting and storytelling , summarized 
on a scale of 1 -5 based on m ultiple tests , train ing cum evaluations and 
feedback.  
salary_hike_high_or_low  A binary variable  for performance -based  salary hike 1= high, 0 = low 
 
 
File: SDS Personality Trai ts 
The file is based on The Big Five Personality Model (the Five -Factor model) and Eysenck 
Personality Questionnaire (EPQ) . 
Column  Brief Description  
id Row identification number o r ID 
neuroticism  It measures the n euroticism which is a fundamental personality 
trait within the "Big Five" model characterized by a chronic 
tendency to experience negative emotions, such as anxiety, 
depression, anger, and self -doubt . The measu rement is presented  
on a normalized  score. Higher  numbers represent high level s or 
values. 
extraversion  It measures the e xtraversion  whic h represents a,  spectrum of 
social engagement , ranging from high energy, outgoing, and 
assertive (extraverted) to quiet, reserved, and solitary 
(introverted) behaviours . The measu rement is presented  on a 
normalized  score. Higher  numbers represent high level s or val ues. 
openness_to_exper ience Openness to experience in the Big Five model measures a 
person's level of creativity, curiosity, and willingness to embrace 
new ideas, experiences, and unconventional thinking.  The 
measu rement is presented  on a normalized  score. Higher  
numbers represent high level s or val ues. 
agreeableness  Agreeableness in the Big Five personality model measures an 
individual's tendency to be compassionate, cooperative, trusting, 
and empathetic rather than suspicious or antagonistic.  The 
measu rement is presented  on a normalized  score. Higher  
numbers represent high level s or val ues. 
conscientiousness  Conscientiousness in the Big Five model represents a person's 
tendency to be organized, responsible, hardworking, and goal 
directed . The measu rement is presented  on a normalized  score. 
Higher  numbers represent high level s or val ues. 
success_ classification_ 
high_low  It presents  high and low classification  of success  levels with in the 
organization.  
 
 
 
 
 
