Company Confidential —For Internal Use Only
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.SAS CU Hackathon
Let’s Showcase The Skills !

Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Agenda 
Problem Context Brief
Expected Outcome Formats
Technology Options
Do’s & Don’ts 
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Agenda 
Problem Context Brief
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.

Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.The Problem Context
We provide Datasets & Context !
CONTEXT : BIG PICTURE
>>  
The problem is around data science related jobs, skills and personality traits 
of the data scientists.
You may think of myriad of analysis including data management, 
visualizations, patterns , statistical or data mining analysis with a definitive 
objective to bring out best information out of available data.
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.The Context
>> DATA  POINTS  : BIG PICTURE
1.Data Science Job Postings including descriptions, salary, experience 
and so on
2.Skill traits in data scientists for success including technical skills like 
coding, math, AI, ML and dashboards and story telling 
3.Personality traits including neuroticism, extraversion, openness to 
experience, agreeableness and conscientiousness.
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.The Data Description doc (Refer to PDF in the system)

Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Data Files
File Description
Data Science Jobs Around 1600 rows of sample data describing the number of jobs posted by the leading 
companies including details like salary, experience and so on in the years 2024 -25
Analytics Jobs Around 15800 rows of sample data describing job postings in analytics area including 
details like job description, designation , location salary and so on in the years 2024 -25
JDS Skill Traits
(Junior Data Scientists)Around 140 rows of sample data of a company’s skillset data of its junior or entry level 
data scientists. The data presents measured technical skillsets and outcome like 
promotion or salary hike (high/low).
SDS Personality Traits
(Senior Data Scientists)Around 160 rows of sample data of a company trait analysis data of its senior and 
customer facing level data scientists. The data presents measured personality traits and 
outcome like overall success (high/low).
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Data Dictionaries

Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Data Dictionaries
Average score on big data, quantitative, maths  and statistics skills,AI , 
ML, visualization and so on summarized on a scale of 1to 5 based on 
multiple tests, training cum evaluations and feedback.Junior Data Scientist Skill Sets
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Data Dictionaries
•Senior and Customer facing data scientists 
•The table  presents the measurements on 
personality traits that exist on a spectrum, 
with individuals falling anywhere between 
high and low. 
•The Big Five model, or Five -Factor Model 
(FFM), is a widely accepted psychological 
framework that categorizes human 
personality into five broad, stable 
dimensions: 
•Openness, Conscientiousness, 
Extraversion, Agreeableness, and 
Neuroticism 
•Often abbreviated as OCEAN or CANOE. 

Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Data : Key Considerations
1.This dataset contains public, self -reported or masked information. 
2.May contain meaningless/misspelled/mistyped entries.  
3.It may be present with outliers and other problems
4.The personality traits have been shown on normalized data
5.You must upload the data to SAS VFL if you wish to use SAS Software.
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Time & Resource Management
1.Manage Time & Resource Judiciously
2.Divide tasks between team members
3.Practice Software components
4.Spend time on initial part i.e. formulating your problem statement
Separate Instructions to access the software shall be provided
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.What would be tested ??
>> The problem  identification  or Analytics  Objective  should  allow  for  
testing  of following  items :
1.Data  Management  and Data  Manipulation  skills
2.Approach  to solve  problem  in Business  Analytics  Context
3.Statistical  Skills  / Data  Mining  Skills/Machine  learning  skills
4.Overall  conclusion  drawn  from  the data  analysisNote : Everything depends on your Problem Identification or Analytics Objective . 
Be careful , thoughtful and Do not Haste . You may spend a good amount of time 
here
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Agenda 
Expected Outcome Formats
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Approach Note :  Important for Round 2
Problem definition / Analytics Objective
Approach :
Data Exploration : data derivation, 
data modification, Data Deduction, reductions
Data Analysis:
Results and Conclusions:
Implications:Word Format 
20 – 25 pages excluding 
Appendix
Time Roman , 12 , single 
spacing preferred
May include Appendix , 
which may have :
Tables, Graphs , Codes, 
Software screenshots, 
Equations etc. and any 
other info 
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Approach Note : Round 2 Considerations
Total – 100 Marks (Top 8 Teams)
Main Headings Marks Key Considerations - A generic guideline
Problem definition or Analytics 
Objective 10Problem Identification Skills & Scope,Depth & Coverage of 
Identified Problem
Approach  Description                     
15Describe the overall flow , motivations and reasons to 
adopt the approach 
Data Exploration: (Data 
Manupilation , Data Derivation, 
Consolidation, Preparation etc.) 25Skills to identify data issues , approach to solve issues , 
consoidate information out of data, exploratory skills and 
data prepration strategies
Data Analysis
30Skills to analyse  the data , statistical / non statistical  skills, 
descriptive /prescriptive analytical skills, Overall Approach 
Results and Conclusions
10Ability to consolidate information from the previous data 
analysis , linkage to the problem statement and solution 
description
Implications10implications of the finding to the relevant stakeholders in 
society or stakeholders concerned 
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Presentation – Round 3 (Top 8 teams will present) 
1.Presentation  and communication  skills
2.Usage  of graphics  , 
3.Slide  Management  
4.Overall  Presentation  Storyline  
5.Concluding  slides  
6.Q & A by Jury
Duration and flow shall be notified laterFor the 10 Teams chosen in Round 2Power Point Format
15 – 25 Slides 
Decide your own 
template, format and 
design 
Ten minutes to present 
max
3-5 mins for Jury Q & A
May include VA based 
Graphics
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Main Headings Marks Genric Considerations
Presentation and communication skills 25body langague, confidence , langague , eye 
contact & connect with the audience
Usage of graphics 10Usage of graphs , visuals etc. to prove or 
disapporve a point
Slide Management 5Slide sequencing , information distribution , 
time distribution 
Overall Presentation Storyline 20Ability to create a logical connect from 
statement to the conclusion
Concluding slides 15Concluding remarks , emphatic and definitive 
comments
Q & A by Jury 25Ability to handle questions , alertness & 
assertiveness Round – 3,  Presentation – 100 marks
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Winner 
Round 2 Marks (70 %)+ Round 3 Marks (30 %) =  Total (Top 3 )
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Agenda 
Technology Options
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.VFL for SAS Users
Click to open the pdf
You Need SAS Profile and University Mail ID  for SAS VFL
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Technology Agnostic 
Load data to VFL
Make a Report in SAS Visual Analytics
Make a Model in SAS Model Studio

Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Do’s & Don’ts 
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Important Note - Do’s & Don’ts
1.Excel may be used only for preliminary analysis but discouraged
2.No e -mail access or data transfers to outside world during night or day 
3.Unfair means , indiscipline ,  non-cooperation , insults to other teams etc. shall lead to 
disqualification
4.Cross -team discussions not encouraged
5.Any damage to systems or software not to be tolerated
6.No chance to influencing the mentors or jury members inside or outside premises
7.Option to quit before time though not encouraged or suggested
8.Decision of jury to be final and binding , no appeals or repeals .
9.Manage Time & Resource Judiciously
10.Divide tasks between team members
11.Practice Software components
12.Spend time on initial part i.e. formulating your problem statement
Copyright © SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.All the Best !!

